Explain features and function of a  Magnetic compass with respect to Magnetism;
Magnetism -Properties of magnets;
Magnetism - "hard" and "soft" iron, 
Magnetism - magnetic induction and permeability; 
Magnetism - magnetic fields; 
Magnetism - position of equilibrium; 
Molecular theory of magnetism; 
Magnetic effects of electrical currents; 
Errors of magnetic compass; 
Effects of magnets on a compass needle under varying conditions; 
Correcting errors of magnetic compass; 
Shipboard magnetic compass adjustment.
Terrestrial and ship's magnetism :variation, dip, total force, horizontal force, vertical force, local attraction; 
Terrestrial and ship's magnetism :geographical variation and its effect on deviation; 
Terrestrial and ship's magnetism :effects of permanent and induced magnetism; 
Terrestrial and Ship's magnetism :Components P, Q and R; 
Terrestrial and ship's magnetism :the rods a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h and k. 
Terrestrial and ship's magnetism :Sub-permanent magnetism and its effects at sea;
Marine Magnetic Compass construction and siting :IMO Resolution A382(X); 
Marine Magnetic Compass construction and siting :General principles (size and relative position; soft iron correctors; types of correctors used on ships; etc.,) 
Marine Magnetic Compass construction and siting :Magnetic screening;
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:General principles of compass correction and the methods of finding and compensating for A, B. C, D and E types of deviation; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:different methods of swinging ship to obtain a deviation table; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:relation of components P. Q and R and the rods a. b. c. d, e. f. g, h and k to th various coefficients and to heeling error; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:sextantal and octantal deviations; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:use of the Kelvin deflector; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:principle of the deflector method and its limitation; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:rules to be followed with regard to the placing of correctors; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:"wiping" and degaussing;
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:construction of a curve of deviations and its practical use in coefficient analysis· constant, semi-circular, and quadrantal deviation; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:analysis of a ship's deviation book to determine causes of irregular deviations and suggest measures for their removal; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:analysis of a table of deviations; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:obtaining and explaining the approximate coefficients A, B, C, D and E; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:types of transmitting magnetic compass bowls and repeaters.
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:magnetic induction and permeability; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:magnetic fields; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:position of equilibrium; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:Molecular theory of magnetism; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:Magnetic effects of electrical currents; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:Errors of magnetic compass; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:Effects of magnets on a compass needle under varying conditions; 
Marine Magnetic Compass adjustment:Correcting errors of magnetic compass; 

    13. Terrestrial and ship's magnetism :

variation, dip, total force, horizontal force, vertical force, local attraction; geographical variation and its effect on deviation; effects of permanent and induced magnetism; Components P, Q and R; the rods a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h and k. Sub-permanent magnetism and its effects at sea;
    14. Compass construction and siting :

IMO Resolution A382(X); General principles (size and relative position; soft 1ron correctors; types of correctors used on ships; etc.,) Magnetic screening;
    15. Compass adjustment:

General principles of compass correction and the methods of finding and compensating for A, B. C, D and E types of deviation; different methods of swinging ship to obtain a deviation table; relation of components P. Q and R and the rods a. b. c. d, e. f. g, h and k to th various coefficients and to heeling error; sextantal and octantal deviations; use of the Kelvin deflector; principle of the deflector method and its limitation; rules to be followed with regard to th·eplacing of correctors; "wiping" and degaussing; construction of a curve of deviations and its practical use in coefficient analysis· constant, semi-circular, and quadrantal deviation; analysis of a ship's deviation book to determine causes of irregular deviations and suggest measures for their removal; analysis of a table of deviations; obtaining and explaining the approximate coefficients A, B, C, D and E; types of transmitting magnetic compass bowls and repeaters.
